Let's open the dot and file in the code editor as we are to configure the MySQL database connection.
First, you need to connect to the database using some database client for a mug.
I tend to recommend sequel or table plus four Windows and Linux, the MySQL workbench.
My Uncle Workbench works for all systems, so I'll use it to show you how to create a new database.
First, we need to configure the connection.
Make sure your database is running first.
Now Prest is adding a button and typed Conexion details the IP address, the port.
Well, that probably should be left unchanged now.
Username and password.
In my case, this is a route for a user name and route for password.
Now, you can give this connection some name like Laravel eight.
And press, OK, now double click this and you should be connected to your database.
Now, we actually should create the database, so for this, click the button for adding the new schema.
Now, here you type the actual database name, you will create.
I will use Lavallade, you are free to choose anything you prefer.
Secondly, we need to choose the default colation, and it should be UTF.
UTF eight, M.B four.
It is how Laravel is configured by default, this setting lets you use full spectrum of Unicode characters
in your database strings.
Finally pressed the button.
Apply again and close on the list of schemas masks, you should now see Laravel, eight.
Press this info button and go to the tables tab and now head back to the editor, so we need to put
the same connection details in the file.
So host port database name that you just came up with and username and password.
In my case, it's root for both.
Final test to check if Laravel is configured properly with the database is to run P2P artisan migrate.
Interminable, you should see more or less what I see on the screen.
Don't worry about migration's just yet.
I'll explain them in details very soon now.
Head back to them.
My school work workbench.
And make sure that you are on this table, stop press refresh, and now you should see some tables are
added.
This means we are properly connected to the database from within Laravel.